sensors/zeek-sensor/README.md, before:

# Zeek Sensor Container

Network sensor image that runs Zeek, emits JSON logs, and forwards them to Kafka via Vector. Use it as the foundation for the NDR data plane.

## Features

- Zeek 6.0 with JSON logging enabled by default.
- Optional Suricata/other tooling can be layered later.
- Vector tails Zeek logs and publishes them to a configurable Kafka topic with tenant/sensor metadata.
- Supports live capture (`-i <interface>`) or offline PCAP replay (`-r <file>`).
- Exposes environment variables to control interface, BPF filters, TLS credentials, and tenant identifiers.
- Built-in PCAP ring buffer with on-demand export (`pcap-manager.sh snapshot ...`).

## Build

```bash
cd sensors/zeek-sensor
Docker build -t ndr/zeek-sensor .
```

## Run (live capture)

```bash
docker run --net=host \
  -e CAPTURE_INTERFACE=eth0 \
  -e SENSOR_ID=branch-office-1 \
  -e TENANT_ID=customer-a \
  -e KAFKA_BROKERS="kafka1:9092,kafka2:9092" \
  -e KAFKA_TOPIC=zeek-logs \
  -e KAFKA_TLS_ENABLED=true \
  -e KAFKA_CA_PATH=/certs/ca.pem \
  -e KAFKA_CERT_PATH=/certs/sensor.pem \
  -e KAFKA_KEY_PATH=/certs/sensor.key \
  -v /certs:/certs:ro \
  ndr/zeek-sensor
```

## Run (PCAP replay)

```bash
docker run -v $(pwd)/pcaps:/pcaps ndr/zeek-sensor \
  -e PCAP_FILE=/pcaps/test.pcap
```

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `CAPTURE_INTERFACE` | Network interface Zeek should monitor | `eth0` |
| `PCAP_FILE` | Optional PCAP for offline processing | empty |
| `ZEEK_BPF` | BPF filter string | empty |
| `SENSOR_ID` | Unique sensor identifier forwarded with every log | `zeek-sensor` |
| `TENANT_ID` | Tenant/customer identifier | `default` |
| `KAFKA_BROKERS` | Kafka bootstrap servers | `kafka:9092` |
| `KAFKA_TOPIC` | Topic to publish Zeek logs | `zeek-logs` |
| `KAFKA_TLS_ENABLED` | `true` to enable TLS | `false` |
| `KAFKA_{CA,CERT,KEY}_PATH` | TLS material | empty |
| `KAFKA_SECURITY_PROTOCOL` | SASL/TLS protocol if needed | `PLAINTEXT` |
| `KAFKA_SASL_*` | SASL credentials | empty |
| `PCAP_RING_ENABLED` | Enable rotating PCAP capture | `true` |
| `PCAP_RING_ROTATE_SECONDS` | Rotation interval per file | `60` |
| `PCAP_RING_FILE_COUNT` | Number of ring files to keep | `20` |
| `PCAP_RING_DIR` | Directory for ring buffer files | `/pcap/ring` |
| `PCAP_EXPORT_DIR` | Directory for exported captures | `/pcap/exports` |

### PCAP Ring & On-demand Snapshot

The container launches `/opt/sensor-tools/pcap-manager.sh` to keep a rolling capture. To export the most recent 5 minutes into a tarball:

```bash
docker exec <container> /opt/sensor-tools/pcap-manager.sh snapshot 300 /pcap/exports/request-$(date +%s).tar.gz
```

For an active capture window (e.g., 60 seconds):

```bash
docker exec <container> /opt/sensor-tools/pcap-manager.sh capture 60 /pcap/exports/live-$(date +%s).pcap
```

Generated files appear under `/pcap/exports` (mount the path to retrieve).

## Pipeline Integration

1. Deploy one or more sensor containers near your SPAN/TAP feeds.
2. Ensure Kafka topic `zeek-logs` exists (or customize via `KAFKA_TOPIC`).
3. Update the parser-normalizer to subscribe to `zeek-logs` (see backend README for details) and map Zeek fields into ECS events.
4. Confirm data arrival by querying the dashboard API or OpenSearch index.

Commit message:

feat: add sensor agent workflow for pcap commands

sensors/zeek-sensor/README.md, after:

# Zeek Sensor Container

Network sensor image that runs Zeek, emits JSON logs, and forwards them to Kafka via Vector. Use it as the foundation for the NDR data plane.

## Features

- Zeek 6.0 with JSON logging enabled by default.
- Optional Suricata/other tooling can be layered later.
- Vector tails Zeek logs and publishes them to a configurable Kafka topic with tenant/sensor metadata.
- Supports live capture (`-i <interface>`) or offline PCAP replay (`-r <file>`).
- Exposes environment variables to control interface, BPF filters, TLS credentials, and tenant identifiers.
- Built-in PCAP ring buffer with on-demand export (`pcap-manager.sh snapshot ...`).

## Build

```bash
cd sensors/zeek-sensor
Docker build -t ndr/zeek-sensor .
```

## Run (live capture)

```bash
docker run --net=host \
  -e CAPTURE_INTERFACE=eth0 \
  -e SENSOR_ID=branch-office-1 \
  -e TENANT_ID=customer-a \
  -e KAFKA_BROKERS="kafka1:9092,kafka2:9092" \
  -e KAFKA_TOPIC=zeek-logs \
  -e KAFKA_TLS_ENABLED=true \
  -e KAFKA_CA_PATH=/certs/ca.pem \
  -e KAFKA_CERT_PATH=/certs/sensor.pem \
  -e KAFKA_KEY_PATH=/certs/sensor.key \
  -v /certs:/certs:ro \
  ndr/zeek-sensor
```

## Run (PCAP replay)

```bash
docker run -v $(pwd)/pcaps:/pcaps ndr/zeek-sensor \
  -e PCAP_FILE=/pcaps/test.pcap
```

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `CAPTURE_INTERFACE` | Network interface Zeek should monitor | `eth0` |
| `PCAP_FILE` | Optional PCAP for offline processing | empty |
| `ZEEK_BPF` | BPF filter string | empty |
| `SENSOR_ID` | Unique sensor identifier forwarded with every log | `zeek-sensor` |
| `TENANT_ID` | Tenant/customer identifier | `default` |
| `KAFKA_BROKERS` | Kafka bootstrap servers | `kafka:9092` |
| `KAFKA_TOPIC` | Topic to publish Zeek logs | `zeek-logs` |
| `KAFKA_TLS_ENABLED` | `true` to enable TLS | `false` |
| `KAFKA_{CA,CERT,KEY}_PATH` | TLS material | empty |
| `KAFKA_SECURITY_PROTOCOL` | SASL/TLS protocol if needed | `PLAINTEXT` |
| `KAFKA_SASL_*` | SASL credentials | empty |
| `PCAP_RING_ENABLED` | Enable rotating PCAP capture | `true` |
| `PCAP_RING_ROTATE_SECONDS` | Rotation interval per file | `60` |
| `PCAP_RING_FILE_COUNT` | Number of ring files to keep | `20` |
| `PCAP_RING_DIR` | Directory for ring buffer files | `/pcap/ring` |
| `PCAP_EXPORT_DIR` | Directory for exported captures | `/pcap/exports` |
| `CONTROLLER_URL` | Sensor-controller base URL (enables PCAP automation) | empty |
| `CONTROLLER_TOKEN` | Optional bearer token for controller requests | empty |
| `SENSOR_COMMAND_SECRET` | HMAC secret to verify controller commands | empty |
| `PCAP_COMMAND_POLL_INTERVAL` | Seconds between controller polls | `60` |

### PCAP Ring & On-demand Snapshot

The container launches `/opt/sensor-tools/pcap-manager.sh` to keep a rolling capture. To export the most recent 5 minutes into a tarball:

```bash
docker exec <container> /opt/sensor-tools/pcap-manager.sh snapshot 300 /pcap/exports/request-$(date +%s).tar.gz
```

For an active capture window (e.g., 60 seconds):

```bash
docker exec <container> /opt/sensor-tools/pcap-manager.sh capture 60 /pcap/exports/live-$(date +%s).pcap
```

Generated files appear under `/pcap/exports` (mount the path to retrieve).

### Controller Integration

If `CONTROLLER_URL` is set, the bundled sensor agent will poll `sensor-controller` for signed PCAP requests, execute snapshots via `pcap-manager.sh`, upload them to the provided URL (presigned PUT), and mark the request as ready. Configure:

```bash
-e CONTROLLER_URL=http://sensor-controller:8084 \
-e SENSOR_COMMAND_SECRET="shared-hmac-secret" \
-e CONTROLLER_TOKEN="optional-bearer-token"
```

## Pipeline Integration

1. Deploy one or more sensor containers near your SPAN/TAP feeds.
2. Ensure Kafka topic `zeek-logs` exists (or customize via `KAFKA_TOPIC`).
3. Update the parser-normalizer to subscribe to `zeek-logs` (see backend README for details) and map Zeek fields into ECS events.
4. Confirm data arrival by querying the dashboard API or OpenSearch index.
